# Glossary
<br>

- [Visualization](./visual.md)

<br>

## Java Terminology

<br>

- ````Assign```` – to set the data of a variable (involves the equal sign).
- ````Class```` - A class describes a particular kind of object. It can contain related methods and data members (variables). A class must have the same name as the file it is contained in.
- ````Constructor```` - A special type of instance method that creates a new object. In Java, constructors have the same name as their class and have no return value in their declaration.
- ````Declaration```` - A statement that creates a variable, method, or class identifier and its associated attributes but doesn't necessarily allocate storage for variables or define an implementation for methods. Classes are always defined when they are declared, i.e., a class cannot be declared and then have its body defined elsewhere.
- ````Definition```` – Similar to a declaration except that it also reserves storage (for variables) or provides implementations (for methods).
- ````Garbage Collection```` – Programs require memory to run. Memory for objects is allocated by the keyword new. When objects are no longer used or your program terminates, Java automatically frees the used memory for other uses.
- ````Instantiate```` – To allocate storage for an object in memory (involves the keyword new).
- ````Object```` - The principal code building block of Java programs. Each object in a program consists of both variables (data) and methods (functionality).
- ````Primitive```` – A variable defined with a primitive data type: ````byte````, ````short````, ````int````, ````long````, ````float````, ````double````, ````char````, or ````boolean````.
- ````Use/Read```` – the use of a variable in the right hand side of an assignment statement.

<br>

## FRC Terminology 

<br>

- ````Accelerometer```` - A common sensor used to measure acceleration in one or more axis.
- ````Auto```` - The first phase of each match is called Autonomous (auto) and consists of the robot’s running pre-programmed instructions
- ````Back-EMF```` - In electric motors, the force generated by the interaction of spinning magnets in a coil of wire which opposes spinning motion.
- ````Boolean```` - A form of data with only two possible values (true or false), intended to represent the two truth values of logic and Boolean algebra.
- ````Call stack```` - A specially-organized region of memory which helps the program keep track of what function it is in. As each function calls another, the call point is recorded and added to the top of the structure, forming a “stack” of references. Additionally, local variables will also be stored in this stack. See [call stack](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Call_stack) on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````Central limit theorem```` - A core concept in probability which states that when many independent variables are added up, the result tends to look like a “normal” (or Gaussian) distribution, regardless of whether the independent variables themselves are normally distributed. See [Central Limit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Central_limit_theorem) Theorem on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````Classical Mechanics```` - The branch of physics which studies and describes the motion of relatively large, relatively slow objects. See [Classical Mechanics](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Classical_mechanics) on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````COTS```` - Commercial off the shelf, a standard (i.e. not custom order) part commonly available from a vendor to all teams for purchase.
- ````Composition```` - A formal software term for building (or “composing”) software entities out of smaller component entities. See [object composition](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Object_composition) on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````CRTP```` - Continuously Recurring Template Pattern - A software idiom in which a class X derives from a class template instantiation using X itself as a template argument. See [CRTP](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Curiously_recurring_template_pattern) on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````declarative programming```` - A style of software which focuses on describing what a program should do, rather than how it gets done. See [declarative programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Declarative_programming) on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````dependency injection```` - A software design pattern where each class receives all objects it depends upon. Sometimes these are passed through the constructor, but not always. See [dependency injection](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dependency_injection) on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````deprecated```` - Software that has been replaced and will no longer receive new features. Deprecated software will be maintained for at least 1 year, but may be removed after that. For example, if a method is deprecated prior to the 2022 season, it will be usable in the 2022 season, but may be removed prior to the 2023 season. Teams are encouraged to not use deprecated methods in new code. WPILib always deprecates features at least one year prior to removing them from the codebase.
- ````design pattern```` - A particular, intentionally-chosen style of organizing code. A design pattern intentionally excludes using certain features of a programming language to constrain developers into solutions that are well-suited to a particular problem-space. See [design pattern](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Design_pattern). on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````DHCP```` - Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol, the protocol that allows a central device to assign unique IP addresses to all other devices.
- ````encapsulation```` - A software design pattern which uses a class to hide the implementation details of other classes. See [encapsulation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encapsulation_(computer_programming)) on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````entry```` - In NetworkTables, a combined publisher and subscriber. The subscriber is always active, but the publisher is not created until a publish operation is performed (e.g. a value is “set”, aka published, on the entry). This may be more convenient than maintaining a separate publisher and subscriber.
- ````enumeration```` - A list of all elements of a set, typically used to refer to a set of pre-defined values.
- ````event-driven programming```` - A style of programming where certain parts of code generate “events” as a result of some input (sensors, user interaction, etc). Then, other parts of code listen for and respond to “handle” these events. See [event-based](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Event-driven_programming) on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````floating point```` - A method for approximating real numbers in computer-based arithmetic, using a fixed precision integer scaled by an integer exponent. Typically computer systems support both “single” precision (32-bit storage) and “double” precision (64-bit storage) floating point values, as defined by IEEE 754.
- ````FMS```` - Field Management System, the electronics core responsible for sensing and controlling the FIRST Robotics Competition field.
- ````FPGA```` - Field-programmable gate array - a specialized integrated circuit consisting of many digital logic elements, which can be configured to act in different patterns. This allows its behavior to be changed after manufacturing. In the context of FRC, National Instruments provides a specific configuration for the RIO’s FPGA which allows it to process the electrical inputs and outputs at a very high rate. See [FPGA](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Field-programmable_gate_array) on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````GradleRIO```` - The mechanism that powers the deployment of robot code to the roboRIO.
- ````gyroscope```` - A device that measures rate of rotation. It can add up the rotation measurements to determine heading of the robot. (“gyro”, for short)
- ````heading```` - The direction the robot is pointed, usually expressed as an angle in degrees.
- ````imperative programming```` - A style of programming that focuses on what the code should be doing, step by step, every loop. See [imperative programming](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Imperative_programming) on Wikipedia for more info.
- ````IMU```` - Inertial Measurement Unit, a sensor that combines both an accelerometer and a gyroscope into a single sensor.
- ````JSON```` - JavaScript Object Notation. A standardized way of organizing data into named values. The organized data can be easily serialized. While the original usage was in Javascript, it can be used and interested by most modern programming languages. 
- ````KOP```` - Kit of Parts, the collection of items listed on the Kickoff Kit checklists, distributed to the team via FIRST Choice, or paid for completely (except shipping) with a Product Donation Voucher (PDV).
- ````KOP chassis```` - The KOP contains a drive base (chassis) distributed to every team (that did not opt out) as part of the KOP. For the 2023 season, the KOP chassis is the AM14U5.
- ````NetworkTables```` - A publish-subscribe messaging system to communicate data between programs.
- ````mass```` - the amount of matter in a physical object. Objects with more mass will resist changes in motion more than objects with less mass. (why am i defining mass?)
- ````mutable```` - An object that can be modified after it is created.
- ````permanent-magnet DC motor```` - The classification of all legal motors for the FIRST robotics competition. This type of motor takes direct current as input, and uses it to create a magnetic field. In turn, this magnetic field interacts with a physical magnet to create a force that turns the output shaft. Electrical (“brushless”) or mechanical (“brushed”) means are used to ensure the electrically-generated magnetic field always points in a direction that creates forces when it interacts with the physical magnet, even as the motor’s shaft rotates.
- ````persistent```` - In NetworkTables, a topic that is saved to a file by the server and restored at startup.
- ````property```` - In NetworkTables, named information (metadata) about a topic stored and updated separately from the topic’s data. A topic may have any number of properties. A property’s value can be any data type that can be represented in JSON.
- ````publisher```` - In NetworkTables, an object that defines a topic and creates and sends timestamped data values.
- ````pose```` - The collection of position and rotation information that describes how a rigid body is oriented in space, relative to some fixed reference point.
- ````Retro-reflection```` - The property of reflecting incoming light back at the same angle it came in at, rather than an incident angle (like a mirror), absorbing it, or scattering it. Most FRC vision processing targets are retro-reflective.
- ````recursive composition```` - A type of composition in which the composite object may contain components of the same type as itself. For example, a command group may contain one or more command groups. 
- ````Retained```` - In NetworkTables, a topic that is kept alive by the server even after all publishers stop publishing. 
- ````serialized```` - The property of a data organization scheme that allows the description of the data to be sent in order, byte by byte, over some communication channel. Reading or writing a file on disk is done in this serial fashion (IE, the data is read or written byte by byte, not all at once). Sending data over a SPI or I2C bus is also done byte by byte, again requiring the data can be serialized.
- ````telemetry```` - The process of recording and sending real-time data about the performance of your robot to a real-time readout or log file. For the linguists among us, the word’s roots are “tele” (remote) and “metry” (measurement).
- ````Teleop```` - The second phase of each match is called the Teleoperated Period (teleop) and consists of drivers controlling their robots.
- ````trajectory```` - A trajectory is a smooth curve, with velocities and accelerations at each point along the curve, connecting two endpoints on the field.

<br>

**[Previous Page](https://docs.lynkrobotics.org/)**
**[Home](https://docs.lynkrobotics.org/)**






 























