# Training Time! 
Welcome back to the 9496 Lynk OA Thread! This update will be about training our members for this off-season, and this coming 2024 Crescendo season.

## [Lynk Library of Knowledge (LLK)](https://docs.lynkrobotics.org/) 

### What is the LLK?
The past few weeks, a few of our students and mentor has been putting together a collection of resources from many different teams on a site hosted on GitHub Pages, that will be maintained for years to come. 

### What is contained inside of the LLK?
This site contains different resources about different sub-teams such as, Build, Design, Electrical, Programming, Strategy, Scouting, and more. There is even things that are not sub-team specific, such as a section of "What is FRC?" that contains stuff on topics like, the history of FRC, what are the different sub-teams, etc.

### How is the LLK sorted?
These resources range from the absolute basics to advanced topics, separated into three tiers: Beginner, Intermediate, and Advanced. These tiers were decided on so that when the LLK expanded with a lot of different resources, navigating through it wouldn't become confusing and overwhelming to see a gigantic list of resources with no topic in mind. 

### Why is the LLK? 
The LLK was made because the coming season is approaching very rapidly, with little time to create original training content, this is what was made, and also you don't need to reinvent the wheel. With so many resources that already exist out in the wild, there is little to no point to make (for example) an intro to Java slideshow when there is 30 of them out there. We hope to also help other teams out there with this, as one of the Open Alliance values are "Open Alliance teams join to help everyone - not just other Open Alliance teams." We hope that this helps all teams out there in the FRC community. 

### Can I contribute to the LLK? 
Yes, you can. As stated before, there is a lot of resources out there in the wild, and it would be amazing for the LLK to grow more than it already has for years to come. 

#### How can I contribute?
You can submit a "Content Request" by going and submitting one in our GitHub issues found [here](https://github.com/LynkRobotics/Lynk-Library-of-Knowledge/issues/new/choose). There is an issue template there that tells you all the information you need to provide for a "Content Request."

### Lynk Library of Knowledge (LLK): Lynks
- [LLK: Site](https://docs.lynkrobotics.org/)
- [LLK GitHub Repository](https://github.com/LynkRobotics/Lynk-Library-of-Knowledge)
- [LLK: Content Request](https://github.com/LynkRobotics/Lynk-Library-of-Knowledge/issues/new/choose)


